Version 1.5pre 
-----------
ViennaRNA now uses autoconfig generated configure scripts

Version 1.4
-----------
New Turner parameters as described in Mathews et.al. JMB v288, 1999.
Small changes to fromat of parameter files (old param files won't work!)

mfe and suboptimal folding will produce only structures without isolated
pairs if noLonelyPairs=1 (-noLP option), for partition function folding
pairs that can only occur as isolated pairs are not formed.

setting dangles=3 (-d3 option) will allow co-axial stacking of adjacent
helices in mfe folding and energy_of_struct().


Version 1.3.1
-------------
RNAheat would produce spikes in the specific heat because dangling end
energies did not go smoothly to 0. 
PS dot plots now have an option to use a log scale (edit _dp.ps file
and set logscale to true).

Version 1.3
-----------
Secondary structure plots now use E. Bruccoleri's naview routines for
layout by default. New utility RNAplot produces secondary structure plots 
from structures in bracket notation with several options.
-d2 option in RNAfold and RNAeval sets dangles=2, which makes 
energy_of_struct() and fold() treat dangling ends as in pf_fold().
-noLP option in RNAfold etc sets noLonelyPairs=1, which avoids most
structures containing lonely base pairs (helices of length 1).

new utility functions pack_structure() unpack_structure() make_pair_table()
and bp_distance().  RNAdistance adds bp_distance() via -DP switch.

First release of RNAsubopt for complete suboptimal folding.

fixed bug in asymetry penalty for interior loops. 

Default compilation now uses doubles for partition function folding.

Version 1.2.1
-------------
Fixed bug in version 1.2 of the RNAheat program causing overflow errors
for most input sequences. 
The PS_dot_plot() and PS_rna_plot() routines now return an int. The return 
value is 0 if the file could not be written, 1 otherwise.
This version contains the alpha version of a perl5 module, which let's you
access all the capabilities of the Vienna RNA library from perl scripts.
See the README file in the Perl directory for details.


Version 1.2
-----------
New energy parameters from (Walter et.al 1994). 
Energy parameters can be read from file.
RNAeval and energy_of_struct() support logarithmic energy function for 
multi-loops.
gmlRNA() produces secondary structure drawing in gml (Graph Meta Language). 
Many bug fixes.
